1. In this dark chamber are warehoused several sculptures of decidedly
inferior quality. Mostly they are crude attempts at busts, or full-figure
nudes of decidedly pornographic intent. Whoever produced these disasters,
it could not have been the same artist that created the rest of the
artwork you've seen on the estate.
-----
2. Renewed by the fruit of your sacrifice, the vampire lord emerges
from the tomb. "You have awakened me, and for this I am in your debt,"
he lisps. "Do not presume to command me, however. You have not obtained
the Silver Wheel, and until you do, my soul is my own!" 

The Lord of the Undead vanishes, leaving behind only an oily cloud of
smoke, and the bucket of deep-fried jumbo shrimp. Back to the drawing
board.
-----
3. This is a shrine to the dark lady Irkalla, queen of Magan, the
underworld of Oceana. Of all the structures in this area, this is the
best preserved. Simple offerings of weeds and rocks lay before Irkalla,
indicating some residents of this world worship the dark queen. 

Irkalla's image is blasted from bronze. She seems serene and confident,
with a terrible sort of beauty lurking in her fierce countenance. The
black pits of her eyes stare at you without emotion. Here is a deity to
be feared - perhaps also to be loved.
-----
4. You stand before the gate to Purgatory's great public
arena. Bloodthirsty residents of the Dilmun interior come here to enjoy
the spectacle of outlander scum such as yourselves fighting to the death
on the floor of the arena. 

A guard swaggers up to you. He is clad in the trappings of authority
fine armor, a weather-beaten harness well-oiled weapons. "Oy there,
you filthy street scum," the guard growls. "you look fit enough to
hold a weapon. Why not haul your butt into the arena and make yourself
useful?" Why fight for another man's pleasure when life in Purgatory is
a daily struggle for survival? You're about to turn away when the guard
lays a heavy hand on your shoulder and adds,"You'll get your choice of
arms... and if you defeat your foe, which I doubt, you might win Papers of
Citizenship. Namtar help me - heathen dogs like you living in Dilmun! I
don't like it, but the law is the law."
-----
5. With distaste you discover the source of the foul odor. Before you
is a low structure, not so much a building as an odd series of stone
slabs leaning against one another. Some ancient stonemason identified
this place with a legend carved into the rock: "Morgue". A more recent
hand has added its own opinion: "The way out, chumps!". 

The stench of the dead is overpowering, but sensing there's something
important about this place you hang around on the fringes and observe
the routine. Sallow work gangs of malnourished slaves, themselves more
dead than alive, slowly carry corpses from the building and stack them
in sloppy piles. You dimly wonder what crime or heresy landed these poor
souls a job as slaves in a city of criminals. 

From time to time additional corpses are brought here by the more tidy
citizens of Purgatory. These are deposited in the house or stacked in
the piles without seeming purpose. After a time, several of the slaves
bundle one or more corpses into a crude canvas sack and hurl the bundle
over the wall. Distantly, you think you hear a splash. You judge you're
near the harbor wall - are the dead of Purgatory hurled into the waters
of the city's harbor? 

It occurs to you a living man could lay with the dead, and journey with
them in a sack over the wall and to freedom in the harbor beyond. How
far do the sacks of corpses fall? Are they really tossed in the harbor,
or do they tumble into a well? Could you escape from a bag of cadavers
before it sank to the bottom of the sea, maybe forever mired in muck
and weeds? Perhaps the overpowering smell of this place is starting to
get to you. or perhaps this is your ticket out.
-----
6. Here you find a simple wilderness shrine, tended by a lonely druid. He
welcomes you to his temple, saying the place of worship is open to all. 

The shrine is earthy and natural. The walls seem rooted in the depths
of the earth, the rock seems alive with animal spirit, the very air is
crisp and sweet. You see that the patron deity of this shrine is the
man-animal Enkidu. "He is the god of beast-men and man-beasts," the druid
explains. "He respects only the strong and pure, to whom he will grant
a powerful boon.  Before Namtar's purge, the god was in residence in this
forest, where he presided over a vast druid colony. Now Enkidu is gone,
the brotherhood is broken, and knowledge of our magic is lost."
-----
7. You secure yourself in a bag full of only slightly stinking corpses
and wait patiently. Someone sews the bag up as you lie motionless. After
some moments, you hear a throaty voice call, '"Oy, yew! Run yer sword
throo them bogs, thar! You 'membar wot hopp'nd last week! We don't wont
any mar escayps now, do we?" You are bound and helpless!
-----
8. A great cry of joy goes up as you debase yourself. In a city of
criminals, what shame is there in going native? Just to make you feel
at home, the beggars beat you steadily for a week. Properly initiated
into the world of mendacity, you eventually are set free to wander the
streets of Purgatory, better understanding if not entirely fond of the
city's lowest class of citizens.
-----
9. A statue of Namtar, the Beast From the Pit, dominates this dirty
city square. You carefully examine the statue, trying to memorize the
features of the villain who exiled you to Purgatory. You struggle in
vain. The citizens of Purgatory, themselves no less fond of Namtar,
have taken it out on his image - the nose is broken, limbs are chipped,
and the mouth is deformed beyond all recognition. 

As you watch, a wild beggar spits on the statue. "Filthy face of stone!"
she mumbles. "Layed down with lizards he did, that stone face lies as much
as he!" The poor mad creature wanders off, still spitting and mumbling,
leading you to wonder if a similar fate awaits you in the months to come.
-----
10. This back-alley building is in remarkably good repair. Curious, you
enter, and recognize the interior of a modestly-appointed magic shop. A
wizened gnome of a man springs from behind the counter and scurries up
to you. "Mercy, mercy me... customers! Bless me, customers at last!"

The old man is insane but friendly. He explains all high magic has been
outlawed by order of Namtar, but instruction in the low arts is still
permitted in isolated regions. He is eager to teach you what he knows,
and will in fact refuse a fee, preferring to teach for the simple joy
of it. Unfortunately, the old man knows little useful magic.
-----
11. Try as you might, you just can't get your nose to remain on your
face. That Namtar sure has an odd sense of humor.
-----
12. Just ahead you see a bridge. The bridge is covered and armored doors
bar the way across. The bridge appears to be the only way to cross the
water and reach the land beyond. A pack of guards lounge before the
entrance to the bridge. As you appear, they snap to attention. A guard
with a narrow forehead and small eyes approaches you.
-----
13. You're in the middle of the bridge. Although the bridge is covered,
you can hear water rushing beneath you. It is astonishingly loud. 

The bridge is longer than it appeared from the outside. You recognize
now that even a good swimmer would find it impossible to swim from one
island to the next. This bridge is the only way across.
-----
14. Your knowledge of city lore serves you well. This place isn't so much
a city as a prison. The streets are unpaved and evidently double as an
open-air sewer system. Many of the city's structures are buildings only
in the loosest sense of the word - several have holes in the roof (or
no roof at all), others have been gutted by fire. Everything is damp,
showing this city is little different from any other on Oceana... the
rising sea level is eroding the land upon which the city is located, and
it is slowly sinking. Doubtless those buildings that have basements will
be at least hip-deep in water. Graffiti is scrawled on walls everywhere,
generally curses directed at Namtar and crude pornographic renderings of
all the species of Oceana. In all, Purgatory is an ugly place you would
do well to leave as soon as possible.
-----
15. The guards retire a few steps and converse in low tones when you
show them the ring. One of them approaches nervously. "We're King's men,
you know. We don't want any trouble." He shuffles his feet and won't
look you in the eye. "We just went along with... with everyone else. You
have seen the King?" He frowns when you answer. "That ring means you're
on King's business, so you can pass... but if anyone asks, we never saw
you. Understand?" 

You pass into the city. The guards still won't look you in the eye.
-----
16. Before you is a tumble-down collection of huts. A group of ill-clad
unfortunates are gathered around a fire. They see you approach and rush
to your side. "We saw you swim across the bay", says a toothless man
who seems to lead the group. "Any enemy of Purgatory is a friend of
ours. C'mon in and sit by the fire."
-----
17. This is the temple of the Yellow Mud Toad, dedicated to the patron
beast of this city. The temple is as run down and depressing as the rest
of the city. The center of the temple is dominated by a huge statue of
the Yellow Mud Toad, sunk fully a third of its height into the muddy
floor of the building. "Everything sinks these days," a priest of the
temple complains. "This whole city must be built on a lake. We'll all
sink away to nothing if this keeps up!"
-----
18. The camp is deserted. Apparently everyone who lived here was slain
in your recent battle. You notice signs of habitation, but whoever lived
here was dirt poor. It's unlikely you'll find anything of worth in the
camp. Glancing back at the pile of bodies left in your wake, and then
at the bucolic scene of the camp, you sense there was probably a better
way of handling this situation. The man who confronted you seemed a
lot like yourself. Maybe he mistook you for authority from Purgatory,
and only sought to defend himself. This was probably a time for words,
rather than swords.
-----
19. After about an hour, the sick man's fever breaks. He props himself
up on one elbow and smiles. "I was dreaming,"he says in a weak voice. "I
imagined I floated on a vast black pool far beneath the earth. I think it
was in the Underworld. I saw a goddess bound in chains. She was stranded
on an island guarded by monsters." He laughs. "I guess I had a fever." 

The man tries to stand up but finds he's still weak. You help him sit
up. "My name is Ulm," he says. "I guess I have you to thank for breaking
my fever. The guards at the bridge beat me up, and I just can't seem
to bounce back." Intrigued, you encourage Ulm to continue. "I escaped
from Purgatory through a secret door in the wall. I tried to cross the
bridge north of the city, but I didn't have the right papers, and the
guards beat me. I've been coughing blood ever since." 

Ulm's eyelids begin to droop, and in minutes he's asleep again. A moment
later his body stiffens, and Ulm dies. At least his final moments were
pleasant ones.
-----
20. In the center of the ruined tower that occupies the heart of this
city, you find a dais and what's left of a statue. The dais stands about
four feet high, and, from the looks of things, appears to have been
placed here since the tower was destroyed. A plaque on the dais reads,
'This plaque marks the original location of Lanac'toor's Tower and Magic
Academy. This statue commemorates his feats." There used to be a statue
atop the dais, but it has been removed, leaving only Lanac'toor's swollen
feet behind. The statue appears to have broken off clean at the ankles.
-----
21. You pick your way through the ruins and come upon a spy post
maintained by the defenders of Byzanople. Several soldiers are gathered
here. They are gaunt from months of isolation - you surmise that if
the city does not fall by assault it will soon succumb from hunger. The
soldiers are led by a woman warrior dressed in white and red. As yet,
you remain unobserved.
-----
22. This shack has been set up as a universal shrine for Dilmun's many
religions. A priest welcomes you and escorts you around the shrine. The
majority of the shrine is devoted to Irkalla, the Queen of the Underworld,
and her consort Nergal. The priest explains worship of Underworld gods
always spreads during times of strife, perhaps because people come to
view their own world as an extension of hell. Also represented is the
man-animal Enkidu, patron of the Druids, and the obscene Refeek, god of
things better left unsaid. 

The priest lets you worship or observe as you see fit, neither condemning
nor encouraging your actions. "These are hard times," he says, "you had
better pray to them all. We can use all the help we can get."
-----
23. You intently scrutinize the murals for several minutes, and are able
to arrive at a few broad conclusions. It seems this city square was used
to confine a dragon. You remember a legend of the cities of Dilmun holding
dragons captive as defense against their neighbors. The murals depict
blood sacrifice and obtuse ceremony being used to pacify the dragon. In
one of the ceremonies, a priest is depicted aiming a short metal rod at a
dragon, seemingly holding the beast under his sway. There is no rendering
of the dragon in action. It seems the dragon demanded a terrible price for
a purely defensive weapon. Furthermore, the ruins surrounding this square
offer mute testimony to the effectiveness of a dragon for city defense.
-----
24. You board the ship as soon as the last of the pirates drops dead,
eager to see what it was the thieves were so determined to defend. You
see the ship's name is the PRAIRIE MADNESS, and that it seems to be fitted
out for fast raiding missions. There isn't much of a cargo hold, so the
ship won't serve for long journeys, but it looks very fast and dangerous.
-----
25. "Welcome to Phoebus, City of the Sun!" chirps an odd mechanical
voice. You stop in your tracks, trying to identify the source of the
voice. After a few moments, you hear the message again, and determine
it is coming from a raised stone dais and plaque directly in your
path. Evidently the message is activated by your presence. "Welcome to
Phoebus, City of the Sun!" the voice says again, this time a little
slower than before. You examine the plaque and see it is a map of
the city. "Welllcoooome tooo Phoeeeeebussss, Ciiiityyy offff theeeee
Sunnnnnnnn..." the voice intones, now perilously slow. Something's wrong
with the device. a mechanical hand protrudes from the dais, frantically
trying to shake your hand, but there's no way you're getting near it. Two
stern looking gentlemen dressed all in black stare at you, making you
nervous. Committing the details of the map to memory, you hurry away
from the silly device. "Wellllllllllllllcooooooooooommmmmeeeeee. . . !"
-----
26. The walls of this city are of bright marble that seem to glow with
an inner light. The streets are paved and clean, and there is no sign
of poverty or disorder. The horse carts run on time. You can't shake
the feeling something is about to go tragically wrong.
-----
27. You at last stand before the Sword of Freedom. The hilt of the fabled
blade is just inches from your grasp. A hush comes over the city of
Freeport. The furiously boiling waters previously surrounding this isle
have subsided. You look up and see the citizens of Freeport have gathered
all around the harbor, waiting to see what you will do next. Some of the
citizens appear happy, others are proud, many just wear blank stares. One
large man stands silent, but tears roll down his cheeks. 

You smell a faint scent of ozone. Somewhere, a baby cries.
-----
28. Two officers occupy this building, evidently associated with the
military force drilling on the parade grounds outside. The officers
quickly shuffle aside the dice game they were playing when you entered,
and snap to attention. They relax when they see who you are, and you
sense a change in their attitude. 

The elder of the two officers gives you a close inspection. "Such a
fine lot of patriotic types," he says. "It's about time someone from
this feeble little burg enlisted in the army! Welcome to the service of
King Drake. Hail Namtar!"
-----
29. Perilously weakened from your long journey through the swamp, you at
last enter the City of the Yellow Mud Toad. The walls here are sagging
and brown with grime. The city smells almost as bad as the swamp that
surrounds it. Still pools of foul water and puddles of bubbling mud
clog the streets. The people of this city shuffle about on their tasks,
letting your greetings go unheeded and refusing to look you in the eye.
-----
30. Sheltered at the base of the ruined city wall you find a funky
little souvenir shop. A sign in the window identifies the place as "Your
Lanac'toor memorabilia shop!" Intrigued, you enter. An unseen bell chimes
an offensively sour note as you swing open the door to the shop. Inside
you find a remarkable selection of Lanac'toor souvenirs. Images of the
mad sorcerer are inscribed on mugs, bowls, plates, bookends, trophies,
boxes, candles, and lanterns. Lanac'toor's grinning face or family crest
is embroidered on hats, ties, underwear, capes, and belts... a store clerk
even offers to personalize any item you select, sewing or engraving
your name on your purchase. A very small portion of the shop is given
over to items unrelated to Lanac'toor. Most of it seems like junk -
bits of masonry from the city wall, tiny images of the Yellow Mud Toad,
and odd scraps of metal. You are amazed by the single-minded devotion
this shop shows to an historical figure so insignificant outside the
walls of the City of the Yellow Mud Toad.
-----
31. On the far distant horizon you spot the menacing shape of a black
sail. It seems these sea lanes are patrolled by pirates and other scurvy
beasts. The enemy ship is down-wind from you - it is only a matter of
time before you are caught !
-----
32. Huddled in the shelter of the city's ill-repaired wall you find a
militia of wild-eyed men. "Is the war over?" one of them asks. "Does
Lanac'toor live?" wonders another. 

You are able to piece together something of the history of this
place. The patron of the City of the Yellow Mud Toad was a wizard named
Lanac'toor. He occupied a tower that formerly stood in the center of
town. Lanac'toor quarreled with Namtar when a general ban on magic
was announced, and war broke out between the City of the Yellow Mud
Toad and Namtar's city of Kingshome. As soon as the war began it was
over. Kingshome legions summoned a dragon from the swamp to shatter
the walls of the City of the Yellow Mud Toad. Lanac'toor's tower was
destroyed and the wizard himself was turned to stone. 

After Lanac'toor was killed, the enemy army withdrew, apparently
unconcerned with the fate of the City of the Yellow Mud Toad. The citizens
of the city are convinced the worst is yet to come, and thus maintain a
feeble city militia as defense. It seems unlikely the city has anything
worth defending. The men of the militia mutter to themselves as you
leave.
-----
33. Ahead you see the walled city of Byzanople. The tattered banner of
Byzanople still flies above the city's unbreached walls. The approaches
to the city are occupied by the army of Kingshome. The besieging army
is spread across the countryside, indicating it has been several months
since Byzanople was invaded. 

As you approach, several heavily armored soldiers launch an assault on
the city. They scramble over rubble and rush the city's gate, waving their
weapons and shouting war cries. a hail of arrows, stones, and boiling oil
descends upon the attackers wherever they stray too near the wall. The
defenders make short work of the Kingshomer assault, and fewer than one
in ten of the soldiers launching the assault make it back to their camp.
-----
34. A rough pile of rubble marks the perimeter of the Kingshome advance
siege camp. The cyclopean walls of Byzanople are just a few yards
away. A twisted path leads through the rubble toward the gates of the
city. The path passes beneath the walls of the city, forming a savage
killing ground. The path is littered with broken arrow shafts, debris,
and the bodies of others who have tried to take this city by storm.
-----
35. This massive central structure dominates the city of Lansk. Unlike the
walls that surround this city, this structure is fortified and prepared
for war. Armed Lansk guards patrol the battlements, looking stern and ill
humored. Written warnings in a variety of languages advise passers-by to
keep their distance. And not without reason, for within the structure,
visible through a thick glass panel, you see a dragon. The beast is huge,
completely filling the fortress that is its home. It must weigh at least
eighty tons. The dragon is asleep, but no less fearsome for all of that. 

A plaque explains the dragon is maintained by the city as its primary
means of defense. Should disaster ever threaten the city, you read,
the dragon will be set free, destroying both the city and the army that
would conquer it. The dragon is maintained by expensive blood sacrifice -
primarily by hurling criminals into the dragon bunker. 

The dragon is impressive, but you feel vaguely disappointed. This isn't
a fearsome flying saurian; it's an overfed monster sitting in a cage.
-----
36. You alert the warriors to your presence. The soldiers are startled
when you speak, and when they turn you see they are pale with fright. They
realize you could have killed them before they knew you were there. The
soldiers regard you nervously as the woman in red and white approaches. 

"You're the infiltrators the Kingshomers sent from their camp," she
says. "I see you are surprised - my city might be losing this war,
but we're not without our resources." 

The woman shakes your hand as she introduces herself. "My name is Princess
Myrilla," she says. "If you meant us harm you would have attacked us from
behind. You don't look like Kingshomers; I choose to trust you." Myrilla
barks some orders to her men in a language you don't understand. Turning
back to you, she continues, "Follow me. My brother will want to speak
with you." 

Myrilla leads you through a secret passage into the heart of
Byzanople. It's odd this girl has so abruptly taken you into her
confidence. You decide to play along... if she can't make you a better
offer than the Kingshomers, this is certainly an easier way into the
city than storming the gate.
-----
37. Several squat figures surround the entrance to a tunnel leading under
the walls of Byzanople. a wooden palisade shields the tunnel entrance
from the eyes and weapons of the city's defenders. You recognize the
figures as siege engineers, and surmise they are attempting to undermine
Byzanople's walls. 

A short and powerful man covered with mud and sweat emerges from
the tunnel. "I think we're through," he says. "We had to find our way
through a patch of granite, but I think we've come up against a cistern
or basement wall." He looks at you expectantly. "All we need now is a
pack of brave idiots to try the tunnel, find their way into the city,
and open the gate for us."
-----
38. Using your magic spell, you watch in wonder as color flows back into
the frozen dwarves. The chamber is filled with a noise uncomfortably like
the popping of popcorn as the dwarves return to life, their joints made
stiff from ages of disuse. Before long, the entire clan is restored to
life. The dwarves give you the once-over.
-----
39. You find a hidden cove. There's a dock house by the water, and
beside it you can see several small ships tied up to the dock. You
must pass through the dock house to get to the boats. To your right is
a small wayside shrine to some divinity or another. The cove is very
quiet, aside from the lapping of the waves and the rhythmic creaking
of the boats tugging at their ropes. It's hard to tell if this place is
inhabited or not.
-----
40. A wave of fetid humidity strikes you like a slap in the face
when you open the door to this room. This place must be under an
enchantment. Within the room is exactly reproduced a hot and swampy
environment not unlike the Isle of Quag. The floor is a deep and bubbling
mud bog, wide-leaf palms grow here and there, and in the underbrush
you think you see small reptiles warming themselves on hot rocks. a
most unusual sight to find in a dungeon... all the comforts of home
(if you're a reptile).
-----
41. The pirates are friendly enough when you pay them their gold. They
offer you a seat and serve you a brutal meal of calamari and grog. "My
name's Long John Ugly," the leader identifies himself. "And this here
is my gal, Peg." Ugly's girl has two peg legs and no teeth, but she's
by far the most presentable member of this motley crew. 

You converse with Ugly and his band for several hours. Ugly used to
be a sailor in the Tarsian navy. He explains Tars was a minor city
on the isle of Forlorn, and that it was reduced to ruins in the early
days of the war with Kingshome."These ain't good times to be a sailor,
me bucko," Ugly growls, becoming increasingly maudlin as the grog does
its work. "Namtar don't want folks sailing about from one island to the
other. Too hard to keep people in their place that way!"

You learn Ugly's band has scratched out a living raiding along the coast,
but pickings are slim. You also guess they do a bit of smuggling. Ugly is
hesitant to take you out in his boat, saying the weather is wrong and the
seas are too dangerous lately. When you remind him of the gold you paid,
Ugly smiles and Peg shrieks with laughter. 

"I didn't figure that gold covered the cost of a passage, mate!" Ugly
laughs. "That was just a fee for this fine repast and for not gettin'
yer throats slit." Peg whispers something in Ugly's ear. "But Peg
likes ya, and I'm in a charitable mood, so I'll do ya a favor. Seein'
as how ya should be dead anyway, I'm willin' to ferry ya over to the
Necropolis. There's plenty of loot to be had in that place, which should
suit you folks just fine." Ugly gestures over his shoulder and points
toward the south wall. "The dock's on the other side of the south
door. I'll meet ya out there in a minute." Ugly looks you straight in
the eye as he concludes, "And I do mean the south door. You'll do as
yer told if you've got any sense."
-----
42. In this dusty and disused chamber you find what was formerly the
throne of King Drake of Kingshome, the mightiest ruler of Dilmun. The
throne is heaped in the corner and in poor repair. Carelessly tossed
behind the throne you find Drake's ceremonial crown. Maybe it will be
worth something, if there is ever a true king in Kingshome.
-----
43. You sail through most of a day and night through thick fog. There is
no moon, and the going is slow and treacherous. Several times you think
you glimpse phantoms in the fog, or hear strange beasts bumping against
the hull of your vessel. Just when you think you may never reach your
destination, an island looms out of the murk. 

The island is an irregular mass of black stone, covered in moss and
green slime. Ruins of impossibly ancient design are just visible in the
center of the island. Luminous eyes peer at you from dark hollows and
forbidding bogs nestled along the coastline.
-----
44. The magic paint works as advertised. Now covered with the mystic
colors, the formerly ruined walls of the City of the Yellow Mud Toad
stand tall and strong. You hope strong walls will be enough to hold off
the growing terror you know lurks in the swamps, just a few feet away.
-----
45. The sail to Freeport is a long one, and your supplies are barely
enough to last the voyage. You sail east and away from the majority of
the Dilmun islands, headed into previously unknown waters. Once free
from the war-torn islands of the Dilmun interior, you are able to enjoy
the natural beauty of the maritime world of Oceana. 

Presently you come in sight of a glistening modern harbor sheltered in
a strange coast. Your charts indicate this is Freeport, and anchor your
ship at a dock.
-----
46. Your journey takes you to the frontier known as the Eastern
Isles. This area is unclaimed by any nation, and you experience no
encounters with hostile maritime forces. 

The Eastern Isles have a rustic quality lacking in the Dilmun
Interior. Here things are unfinished and wild, and seem untouched by
the corruption of the Interior. This region is the closest thing you've
seen to the paradise you expected to find when you arrived in Purgatory,
many months ago. 

Presently you spot what seems to be a ruined city, half-submerged in the
sea. You find a place to land your craft on a stretch of sand southeast
of the ruins.
-----
47. Near the bridge you find a run-down building.  A sign above the
door identifies the place as the 'Official Quag Visitors Information
Bureau'. The building is every bit as run-down on the inside as out. 

An ugly little woman with a cluster of purple eyes enthusiastically
greets you. "Welcome to Quag, Isle of Luxury!" she says. "I'm so glad
you're here. We don't get so much business since the war." You learn that
Quag's only city - the City of the Yellow Mud Toad - is sinking into the
swamp and the priests of the Yellow Mud Toad are powerless to stop it.
"But it's really quite safe for travelers," the woman is hasty to add.
"Quag remains an isle of wonders, and many still dream of taking the vapors!"

You judge the woman quite mad. Saying good-bye, you depart.
-----
48. A wall of rock stands athwart your path. Massive bronze doors guard
a way through the rock; fearsome beasts guard the way to the door. 

Two creatures guard the way through the rock. They are half scorpion
and half dragon, but in some ways they look like men. Their eyes glow
with balesome fury. They glow with an inner light, bathing the ground
at their feet in glory. They appear to be a man and a woman, and thus
doubly dangerous for the bond they must share.
-----
49. After a few hours of cautious work, you're able to lash an appropriate
rock to the broken pick handle with the laces you received from the
dying man. The result is a serviceable if makeshift hammer. The hammer
probably isn't worth much as a weapon, but it might hold up long enough
to break the chains that bind you.
-----
50. The door closed behind you with an ominous sound evoking the finality
of the tomb. The door and wall from the bridge must have been sound
proofed, for no sooner do you emerge from the bridge than a mad chorus
of howls assails your ears. Insane screaming seems to spring from every
direction, although you cannot see the source of the noise. It's enough
to drive a person mad!
-----
51. You walk beside a clean and stylish harbor. Although you are near the
sea, this place has none of the stink associated with Oceana's coastal
places... either Freeport is not sinking, or the port is engineered such
that seepage is not the problem here that it is elsewhere in the world. 

The construction here is simple but attractive. There's rustic feeling
associated with the unfinished wood railings, foliage, and crisp scent
to the air. The people of this place are dressed in effective leather
and cloth, and seem healthy and energetic. Everyone is armed, and you
judge the citizens of this place know how to defend themselves. You
are greeted warmly as you approach, but the citizens of Freeport do not
tarry to speak. Everyone seems engaged in a mission of great industry.
-----
52. To the south is a little island in the harbor. Standing in the center
of the island is an anvil, plunged to the hilt within the anvil is a
brilliantly gleaming magic sword. There seems no way to the island... the
water here seethes and boils with magical energy. It doesn't take much
imagination to surmise a swim to the island would be fatal. 

A Freeport citizen notices your interest in the island. "That is the Sword
of Freedom," he says. "Many years ago, the great hero Roba delivered it
from the Underworld. After many years of adventuring, Roba retired here
and founded our city. Shortly before his death, Roba built this magical
island to protect his sword." 

The citizen is silent for a moment before continuing. "Legend says that
so long as the sword remains in the anvil, no harm can come to Freeport,
" he says. "At the same time, Roba warned a time would come of great
strife on Oceana. He said a champion would appear one day to claim the
sword. He who wields the Sword of Freedom will quell the strife in Oceana,
but at the same time will doom our city. Such is the sacrifice we must
someday make." 

The citizen wishes you well and leaves. The Sword of Freedom is just out
of your reach. It seems to taunt you. How to get it? How to get it...?
-----
53. In this cell you find a weak young man dressed in soiled motley. "Good
evening ladies and germs, it's good to be back at the palace," he says
as you enter his cell. "A funny thing happened to me on the way to the
dungeon." The poor man was obviously a court jester. "I ran into Sir
Loin of Pork this afternoon - he said he was about to become Baron of
Greymatter." This guy really stinks. If wiser men than you consigned
this man to the dungeons, who are you to set him free. "I got a million
of 'em," the jester says, seeming to notice you for the first time and
perking up considerably. This confirms your worst fears, and you slam
and lock the cell door. "Cancel the Renaissance - it looks like a reign
of terror!" comes the muffled voice from behind the door. 

Even Namtar has a good idea now and then.
-----
54. "Thanks for putting me back together - I feel swell!" Lanac'toor
grins. "I was a little nervous when you put my arms on backwards, but
I guess I'll get used to it. Having my elbows bend the wrong way will
make it easier for me to scratch my back!"
-----
55. A yawning chasm stretches before you. A violent gust of hot wind rises
from the chasm... the void must reach to the very roots of the world,
below even the Underworld. Out of the chasm, starting an unknowable
distance beneath you and stretching as far as the eye can see, you view
a vomitous mass of irregular black stone. The tower stands piled atop
itself and is at once designed and chaotic... from one angle it looks
like a sorcerer's stronghold, while from another it seems like the
exposed spine of a fantastic beast. Perhaps it is not really there at
all. More likely it exists in more than one dimension at the same time,
and is thus difficult to see in its entirety. 

One thing is certain... this tower has nothing to do with god, or
salvation, or pilgrims. This is a tower of Evil. This is the Tower of
Namtar!
-----
56. A tall and powerfully built man with a greenish complexion greets
you when you enter the building. "I am Tarkas, first citizen of Tars," he
says. You learn that he and his fellow officers fled here to Freeport when
their home city of Tars was destroyed by the legions of Kingshome. Tars
was previously the foremost city of the Isle of Forelorn. Now Tars is
a sad ruin, while Purgatory passes for the isle's only city. If you
explore the ruins of Tars, Tarkas says, be sure to seek the hidden
chambers beneath the city - they might still contain fabulous treasures. 

Tarkas is bitter when he recalls the ruin of his city. "We were betrayed,"
he says. "We relied on our dragon to defend us. We didn't dream Kingshome
would be so bold to assault us when our dragon was healthy and awake. When
they lay siege to our city, we released our dragon... and the beast did
nothing! A hundred years of blood sacrifice to that terrible dragon,
and what good did it do us in our hour of need?" 

Tarkas grows animated as he speaks, accidentally smashing a table as
he excitedly flails his arms. "I tell you, Namtar found a way to usurp
control of our dragon! Since Namtar rose Kingshome against all of Dilmun,
dragons have all but vanished! Namtar controls them somehow... but no man
can control the saurians without paying a terrible price. If someone
could learn what he's done with the dragons - and learn how to wrest
their control from Namtar... then Kingshome would learn a thing or two!"
-----
57. This simple hall serves as the community meeting place for the
citizens of Freeport. You are greeted by minor city officials who welcome
you to their town and eagerly ask you for information of the war in
Dilmun. "These are dark days," the official says. "Soon Kingshome will
control all of Dilmun, then Namtar will cast his evil gaze toward the
Eastern Isle and our fair city." 

The official scratches his head. "It's odd," he says. "My father was
an advisor to the court of King Drake at Kingshome. He said Drake
was a peaceful old man. His son, Jordan of Byzanople was a regular
firebrand...but not Drake. Why suddenly make war on his neighbors? It
doesn't make any sense...Namtar must have poisoned him." The official
shrugs. "I wonder if something's happened to him. King Drake hadn't been
seen in public for over a year when I was last in Phoebus, and that was
some time ago. Maybe something happened to him."
-----
58. After a long wait, you shuffle onto the block with a host of other
unfortunates. You are in better shape than the poor wretches that surround
you, and your group is instantly the subject of spirited bidding. You
shudder as you are sold to a man with a fat neck for more gold than you
are likely to see in a lifetime. 

You are led away from the slave auction and linked one to another by
a continuous sequence of chains and collars. Presently your new master
appears and introduces himself. "I am Master Mog," he says. "From this
moment on, I am your mother, I am your father, I am your God, I am your
world. I am Mog - Mog is All. Abandon all hope of freedom. You are my
property, to do with as I please." 

Mog leaves you to the hands of his slave bosses, who spend the next
several weeks attempting to break your spirit. During this time you are
loaded aboard a painfully slow cog and sail to Master Mog's estate. You
are afforded a brief glimpse of Mog's luxurious palace before you are
led beneath the earth and introduced to Mog's salt mines. 

Then begins a mind-numbing series of repetitious chores. You are not
permitted to leave the mines. You work, sleep, and eat in the same series
of identical tunnels, never permitted to see the sun.
-----
59. You are admitted to the camp and immediately pressed into service. The
army makes no attempt to provision or train you - it's evident they
consider you a band of cutthroats, and that they like you just the way
you are. 

You are billeted in a siege camp located a few miles south of the
walled city of Byzanople, which for months has stubbornly resisted the
enlightenment of joining the unified Kingshomer Empire under Namtar and
King Drake. The besieging Kingshomer army is preparing to take the city
by storm. You are to be among the waves of unfortunates they wish to send
over the wall. You may not take kindly to this idea, but there are many
more of them than there are of you, and this is no opportunity to desert.
-----
60. These cramped quarters serve as home for Mog's unfortunate slaves. Men
sleep fitfully on the cold rock floor, encumbered by the stout chains
that bind them one to another. An examination of your companions proves
your chains will never be removed - some of the sleeping men are still
chained to companions who have long since passed away.
-----
61. The dying man gratefully gulps water from your cup. "You are angels,"
he says. "I want to die, but not alone, and certainly not thirsty!" The
man wipes his mouth with his wrist. His parched lips crack and smear his
wrist with blood."Not much longer," he says with a wan smile. "When I'm
gone, I want you to have these." The dying man shows you his boots. The
soles are entirely worn away, but the tops are still secured by stout
leather laces. "The boots aren't much good, but the laces are strong -
maybe you can do something with them." The old man is abruptly seized
with a coughing fit. You know the end is near. "I hope you fare better
then me," he croaks.
-----
62. The last of the guards drops dead and silence claims the mines. A
ladder leads up out of the salt mines. In the dim distance you can see
sunlight for the first time in uncountable hours, days, or months. Freedom
is at hand. But what awaits you at the top of the shaft?
-----
63. Several people are huddled around a fire. One of them offers you some
stew which you eagerly accept - it's bland and watery, but it's the first
hot food you've had in days and you eat every drop. After your meal you
doze off by the fire, grateful to at last be in the company of charity
and good will. When you awaken, you feel as if you've been reborn.
-----
64. You stand before the gleaming city of Lansk. The streets are
clean, the people are orderly, and while the city is walled, there is
no gate. None of the busy citizens you spy carries a weapon. The city
shows no sign of war or occupation. However, it does seem like a very
rich place, and you can detect a faint smell of dragon in the air...
-----
65. This guard room is occupied by several menacing men who stand when
you enter. "Well... look at this," one of them sneers. "Our prisoners have
'escaped'. We have to 'recapture' them - perhaps several times." The
guards begin to close in. "Remember, men, these prisoners were trying to
escape... we won't be accused of beating prisoners in their cells again!"
-----
66. This is Phoebus' incredible Temple of the Sun, renown all across the
world of Oceana. The sun's warm rays shine into an open atrium, bathing
the broad leaves of a variety of exotic heliotropic plants. Acolytes of
the temple are busy about on mysterious tasks. The floor is inscribed with
a gold design depicting the motion of Oceana and her sister planets. From
some unseen chamber you hear the soothing sound of running water. 

A gold curtain swings aside and a short, swarthy man enters the
chamber. He is dressed in blue robes inscribed with stars and moons,
and wears a pointed cap. It seems the man very much wants to look like
a wizard, but has no idea of what wizards actually look like. 

"I am Mystalvision, High Priest of the Temple of the Sun," says the
wizard in a comically high and wet voice. "You are to be commended for
making it this far. I don't care that you cracked out of Purgatory, but
your behavior since entering my city has been intolerable." Mystalvision
snaps his fingers, and several cruel gentlemen dressed all in black
appear out of nowhere. "Namtar's Stosstrupen would like to ask you some
questions," Mystalvision sneers. "I should ask you to come along quietly,
but it will be more fun to do this the hard way."
-----
67. This is an open-air slave market, filled with the cry of flesh
mongers and the laughter of a perfumed crowd. Here men and women are for
sale - people such as yourselves - to the jaded residents of the Dilmun
interior. 

From the gate of the slave market you watch as several young men are
auctioned off. They seem less healthy than yourselves - maybe they've
been in the city longer than you. It seems a sad way out of this place,
to make yourself a slave... but isn't anything better than a life of
misery and slow death in the streets of Purgatory? 

You scan the crowd, anxious to measure the character of citizens of the
Dilmun interior. Their faces seem cruel and aristocratic, with a faint
hint of the more-than-human. Here and there you spot a face that seems
kinder than most, but if you were on the block, what guarantee would you
have of receiving a kind master? Could you truly live with yourself as
a slave? 

There is a long line of lost souls waiting for the auction block. Nothing
will stop you should you decide to join them.
-----
68. The door to this hut is open, and from within you hear someone
singing. Entering the hut, you see a simple room... a pile of straw
serves as a bed, while a candle bums on a large rock that passes as a
table. Behind the rock you see a sad man who seems very old. His eyes are
empty sockets and both his hands have been amputated at the wrist. You
wonder why a blind man burns candles when he's alone. 

The man stops singing and swings his head in your direction when you
enter. "You must be the outsiders everyone's so excited about," he says
with a firm voice. "I can smell Purgatory on you. Please come in. I'd
like to see some new faces... provided I could see."

You learn the man's name is Carson. He was a sorcerer at the Temple of the
Sun, in Phoebus. "That was before Namtar rose from the Pit," says Carson,
pausing to spit. "Damn Underworld types should stay in their own world." 

You talk with Carson well into the evening, pumping him for
information. You learn that Namtar is either a demon or a man - Carson
seems to use the terms interchangeably. About a year ago Namtar appeared
at the court of King Drake in Kingshome, and was welcomed as the court
magician. Within a year, Kingshome had mobilized and began making war on
its neighbors. At the same time, Namtar announced a general ban on magic,
using his secret police - the Stosstrupen - to enforce the ban. A great
magical war ensued, which Namtar and the Stosstrupen won handily. 

"Now sorcery is all but dead in Dilmun," Carson continues. "Take a
look at me. Ten years learning Sun Magic and it leads to this! All the
old Masters are gone... Lanac'toor was finally driven over the edge and
shattered into a score of pieces; Zaton exiled to the deep wilderness;
and Mystalvision..." Carson is silent for a long time, then says, "I
can't prove it, but I always thought Mystalvision was wrapped up with
Namtar. He's the High Priest at the Temple of the Sun. Our Order fell to
Namtar so quickly... we must have been betrayed. Beware of Mystalvision!"

You talk with Carson late into the night, but learn little else of
value. He is either unwilling or unable to teach you any magic. Heeding
his advice, you take your leave of the old man.
-----
69. When no one is looking, you crawl into an open sack filled with
disgustingly fresh corpses. You lay still as the sack is crudely sewed
shut. The darkness of the tomb descends upon you as the bag is closed. 

None too gently, the entire sack is heaved onto the backs of the
slaves. Dead arms embrace you, long fingernails claw at your hair,
rotting grave mold seems to penetrate your body. There is a lurch and
a rasp as the bag clears the wall, and then you fall. 

Your flesh crawls with anticipation. Will you meet your end, smashed
to death with a host of corpses on some unseen rocky spire? Or will
you splash into the warm waters of Oceana, at long last free from the
stinking hell of Purgatory? 

You splash. You sink. You struggle. At last you win free of the sack,
and the dead hands that drag at you seemingly resentful of the life you
display. Lungs bursting, you break from the water at the base of the
harbor wall, and quickly clamber aboard some debris you find floating
close by and strike out for shore.
-----
70. Mighty oaks intertwine above your head to form a living gateway to
this enchanted forest. A fresh coat of sparking dew lays over everything,
lending a fantastic quality to the scene. The ground is covered with an
inviting blanket of green moss. Faerie lights glimmer from within the
boles of dark yet pleasant trees. This is a magical place.
-----
71. Much to the garrison's dismay, the gates of Byzanople prove little
obstacle for you. The Kingshomer army streams through the open gate and
makes short work of the outnumbered city garrison. Byzanople has fallen. 

After putting the garrison to the sword, the victorious Kingshomer
soldiers gleefully get down to some serious pillaging. Buck Ironhead,
the commander of the Kingshomer siege camp, appears from the chaos. "I've
got to hand it to you," he says, "you really did a job on these Byzanople
jerks! Now Namtar's control of Dilmun is complete. I'm sure the Beast
From The Pit will want to thank you personally." Ironhead smiles when
you remind him of your bargain. "I haven't forgotten, I assure you... but
seeing as how you threw in with me so easily, I doubt you have any real
sense of honor. I wouldn't trust you clowns as far as I could throw
you!" Buck stands back as several of his soldiers gather around. "Put
these traitors in irons!" he snarls. 

The guards close in. It's an epic fight, but no heroes can long withstand
sheer weight of numbers. Everything goes black as the last of your party
falls to the dust.
-----
72. This shrine is formed from rocks and wood and moss - it seems a
profoundly natural thing, more an outgrowth of this enchanted wood than
a thing built by man. The divinity worshiped here is none you recognize,
but the feeling of the place is one of harmony with nature. 

Upon closer inspection, you see dried bloodstains on the rock. The stains
are not large - this shrine is not used for sacrifice - but perhaps its
resident god is awakened by a token gift of life.
-----
73. This hidden glade is charged with magical energy. The rocks marking
this clearing form a ring of deliberately-placed standing stones, the
focus of which is upon the earth where you now stand. You feel power
rushing from the roots of the earth and into your soul. Enkidu himself
stands and regards you.
-----
74. Old Jack's eyes grow bright when you show him the signet ring. "His
majesty..." Jack whispers. You sadly shake your head, indicating Drake
is dead. Tears form in Jack's eyes as he sighs. "Me poor, poor king...
I knew ye'd come to no good with that demon Namtar!"

After showing him your ring, Jack treats you like an honored guest,
forgiving all your misdeeds in the forest. "I'm a King's man, ye got ta
believe that," he says. "I love me King an' I never disobeyed him. But I
never like the looks o' that Namtar - he's a very devil, he is! It must
have been 'im wot killed old Drake." Old Jack pauses to spit. "Someone's
got to bring Namtar down, and clear the way for young Prince Jordan to
take the throne. You've got the ring, so you're it!" 

Old Jack solemnly hands you his bow. "This here's me bow, I call her
Nevermiss! Drake gave her to me when we were both boys, and she's never
failed me. Now I give her to you, to shoot down that foul Namtar!" Jack
is hesitant to release the bow, and even as you hold it his eyes linger
on the weapon. "She's like a lady, she is... you treat her kind. You
treat her kind." 

Jack is abruptly eager to leave. He refuses to leave the forest, saying
it's his only home. He wishes you all good luck and melts into the
woods. 

He will never be seen again.
-----
75. After what seems an eternity, you locate the source of the
screaming. Nearly mad yourselves, you find a city of the mad squatting
on a desolate shore. Feeble huts made of driftwood and debris huddle
together in a feeble pile. White-haired loons with wild eyes stumble to
and fro, mumbling to themselves or shrieking like cats. Crazed citizens
of the place wrestle with one another, seeming like writhing human
serpents. It's a madhouse, and the inmates are running the asylum.
-----
76. A mad artist inscribes designs on the sandy floor of his hut. "I
don't have to do this, you know," he says as you enter. It's uncertain
if he's talking to you, or if you walk in on him while he was talking to
himself. "I can make a good living as a tattoo artist!" he continues. "But
I will draw on you, mother earth, because everyone else draws from
you. You. Who. Moo. Moo?" 

The artist jumps up and bounds about the hut. "Moo! Moo!" he howls. "Don't
you see? It's all so clear. At last! At last! The poor man rushes past
you and is quickly lost in the village of the lost.
-----
77. Amid the ruins you come upon a remarkable sight. A bonfire illuminates
a shattered city square. Scores of people cavort about the fire -- this
is the greatest gathering of people you've seen since arriving in
Purgatory. 

The occupants of the square constitute a cross-section of Purgatory's
citizenry. Blind beggars, mad poets, dog-faced children, and drunken
priests swarm about the fire like moths to a flame; drinking, singing,
loving, bleeding, brawling. Above them all, seated on a rude throne
of stacked masonry, you see the man you surmise to be the king of this
place. If he is a king, he is a king of thieves. 

Astounded by this strange sight, you do not notice until it is too
late a score of scoundrels sneaking up on you. Surrounded by rogues,
you are urged toward the fire, where you come under the gaze of the
figure on the throne. "Outlanders!," the king roars, teetering atop
his perilous perch. "You've strayed far from your homes, little does
and kittens. This is the Court of Miracles, gathered to pay homage to
the King of Purgatory..." the king pauses, awaiting the proper moment
before continuing, "...me, Clopin Trouillefou!"
-----
78. A group of ragged unfortunates sun themselves on this dismal
coastline. They sit in folding beach chairs, some beneath the shade of
colorful beach parasols. All the men and women are dressed in rags. Few
have teeth; fewer still have a proper tan. The day is cold and grey. 

"Hail Namtar!" a woman cries. "Great is he to take such care of us! What
have we to want for?" A one-armed young man elbows you in the ribs, and
says with a sidelong wink, "Quite a little resort we got here, wouldn't
you say? Boy, that Namtar sure is a swell egg!" "This is a ritzy place -
nothing less than a king retired here!" cackles another. Similar comments
come at every turn. You find this place is called Toxic Beach, and these
poor lunatics think it's some sort of beach resort to which they've been
sent as reward for faithful service to Namtar. 

A few bloated dead rats have washed up on the bleached coastline. An odd
tumble of rocks marks the north end of the shore. The rocks are covered
with debris, as if the remains of a shipwreck have washed up here.
-----
79. There is a deep rumbling as storm clouds gather. Abruptly rain begins
to fall in relentless sheets, threatening to flood the stone, the forest,
the entire world. 

A supernatural hush falls over the glade. Even the pelting rain seems
to fall silent. Suddenly you are surrounded by animals - bears, dogs,
deer, ducks, and even a penguin. You turn and see still more animals
crowding outside the door to the shrine. You see a lion lay down beside
a lamb. The animals are waiting for something. 

Above the stone appears the ghost of Zaton. The ghost speaks. "My friends,
I am forever in your debt for liberating my soul. By restoring me to the
world, the world restores itself. The natural order is reestablished. Man
and beast may again live in harmony." 

The animals begin to excitedly roar, bark, and bray. "My time in this
world is done," Zaton says. "But for you brave adventurers the task is
just beginning. Namtar is evil! He must be destroyed! To you I grant
the boon of knowledge... use it well!"
-----
80. The center post of these communal huts shelters a secret chamber. A
skeleton dressed in the royal colors of Kingshome sits on a makeshift
throne. Whoever this was, he's been dead a long time. A royal signet
ring gleams on one skeletal finger. The ring seems both valuable and
important.
-----
81. A dwarf springs up as you enter the room. He eagerly scans your
party, then collapses in disappointment. "No dwarves," he weeps. "Never
are there any dwarves. Poor Josephina is all alone." The dwarf has a
woman's name, but it's bearded and it smells and... well, no matter,
Josephina is probably just as crazy as everyone else in this silly town. 

"The kingdom is broken," cries Josephina. "The great clan hall is sealed,
and all the dwarves slumber in the vaults. Namtar stole the eyes from
our icon and hurled them into the sea. Every day I search the coast,
but never do I find the eyes." Josephina continues to weep, hardly aware
of your presence.
-----
82. Nisir, the Mountain of Salvation, rises above you to an impossibly
great height, seeming to rip the sky. Although it is daytime, when you
look up you can see stars near where you guess the summit of the mighty
mountain must be. It seems to you the mountain must push through the
very atmosphere of Oceana to produce such a sight. 

Ahead of you, a long line of pilgrims slowly files past the sole gate
leading from the harbor.
-----
83. A prisoner lies babbling in the corner . "A secret tunnel connects
this prison to the Nisir", he says. "When you find the swamp within the
mountain, know you are near Namtar!"
-----
84. The pilgrims stop one-by-one to kneel before this elaborate shrine
before continuing. The shrine depicts the image of the Universal God,
a faceless deity that looks in all directions at once, and raises its
arms to encompass both earth heaven, and underworld. You note with relief
that not even Namtar has dared to undermine the basic faith of Oceana. 

The pilgrims evidently expect enlightenment and salvation to result
from their visit to Nisir. You expect salvation of a different kind -
the sort that can come only from sending Namtar to his doom.
-----
85. It is several days' sail to Nisir, the Mountain of Salvation, but
the route is easy to follow. The great mountain Nisir seems to rise from
the roots of Oceana and reach to the heavens - it is easily the tallest
mountain on the planet, and you are in sight of your destination for
most of the journey. 

The harbor at Nisir is clogged with pilgrim's vessels. Several hundred
robed figures crowd the docks, slowly passing through the harbor's only
exit into the interior. The great mountain of Nisir looms above you,
stem and forbidding. You sense a moment of destiny is at hand.
-----
86. You are pressed into service and sent directly to the front. The army
makes no attempt to provision or train you - it's evident they consider
you a band of cutthroats, and that they like you just the way you are. 

A troop ship conveys you to King's Island, where the walled city of
Byzanople stubbornly resists the enlightenment of joining the unified
Kingshomer Empire under Namtar and King Drake. Byzanople has been under
siege for several months, and the besieging Kingshomer army is preparing
to take the city by storm. You are to be among the waves of unfortunates
they wish to send over the wall. You may not take kindly to this idea,
but there are many more of them than there are of you, and this is no
opportunity to desert. 

You are billeted in a siege camp located a few miles south of the actual
siege.
-----
87. Directly ahead you see the semi-permanent camp of the Kingshomer
campaign army. The army occupies a valley between two mountain peaks. A
wooden palisade has been erected across the mouth of the valley, providing
the camp with a measure of protection against raiders from the south. 

There is no evidence of an enemy army anywhere in the area. From the looks
of the camp, it seems likely this is a base from which the Kingshomer
army is besieging an enemy fortress or city. 

Several guards lounge before the entrance to the camp. They eye you with
suspicion.
-----
88. Within this building you find a group of old men gathered around
a table. They're playing dice and speaking rapidly to each other in a
dialect you can barely understand. You are noticed and welcomed into
the game. 

The men play for the joy of it. There's a complicated wagering scheme
involved, but no money ever changes hands, and the men don't seem to care
if you're rich or destitute. After a while, you begin to make sense of
their speech. 

It seems these men are residents of the Dilmun interior, displaced to this
island of outlanders by war and oppression. From them you learn a little
of recent events in Dilmun. The Dilmun interior consists of several large
islands, each of which is dominated by an autonomous city-state. Warfare
has been frequent between the rival cities, but no single nation has
ever been able to rule all the others. Each city keeps a dragon captive
somewhere within its walls - if total disaster ever threatens, the dragon
will be let loose. This would almost certainly lead to the destruction
of both sides, but it serves as a deterrent to conquest. 

Recently, the city of Kingshome launched a bid for empire. Kingshome's
imperialism was aided by a sorcerer - Namtar the Beast From the
Pit. Thanks to Namtar, all magical opposition was quickly overwhelmed,
and Kingshome made rapid gains. For some unknown reason, the conquered
cities never launched their dragons against Kingshome. 

The youngest of the men arrived at the camp just a few months ago. So
far as he knows, nearly all of Dilmun's cities have been conquered or
lay in ruins. The city of Byzanople on the King's Isle remains free,
although it has been under siege for several months. He also mentions
a city called Freeport in the Eastern Isles, but his companions scoff
when he does, saying Freeport is more myth than reality. Nevertheless,
the young man asserts he'll find Freeport someday - as soon as he can
find a ship bound for the Eastern Isles. Since the war, very few ships
travel the interior waterways, and it has become increasingly difficult
to use Dilmun's many bridges.
-----
89. You restrain the hunchback and prevent him from hurling the prisoner
into the pit. Tears flow from the hunchback's already swollen eyes. "Buth
Gethtrude must eat!" he mumbles. The dragon's thrashing intensifies,
and the great beast begins beating its head against the side of its
pit, setting up a great rumbling through the dungeon. ''Now thuh manue
hath hit thuth windmill!" the hunchback howls, trying to flee down the
narrow causeway to the edge of the pit. He doesn't make it... with a
great booming, the dragon lurches from his chains, bumping against the
platform on which you stand. The hunchback is hurled screaming into the
maw of the dragon... but now that beast is free of its chains, no mere
morsel can satisfy it! 

You flee the scene as the dragon smashes at the supports of the dungeon,
and in so doing at the foundation of the entire city of Phoebus. You find
a crazy path to the surface uncovered by the dragon's rage. You flee the
vicinity of the city and watch from a nearby hill as the dragon claws
its way to the surface. Before long, Phoebus is a flaming ruin as the
dragon takes its terrible toll. The city destroyed, the dragon slowly
rises into the sky, and flaps off to the east.
-----
90. This is the office of the supreme commander of the campaign
army of Kingshome. General Buck Ironhead regards you from behind his
desk. Ironhead is a frightening sight. His arms are a mass of scar
tissue from a sequence of wounds too tedious to list. His face shows no
mirth. His hands continually clench and unclench. His head is completely
flat - you could balance an egg on it. 

"It's about time ya goldbricks showed up!" Buck snarls. "What do ya think
this is -- a soggin' country club?? Ain't ya ever heard of reporting to
yer commandin' officer??" Buck doesn't wait for a reply. "Now, I know
you clowns are a pack of liberal adventurers. You don't like Namtar,
you don't like the army - kids today! Ungrateful whelps! Well, I don't
care about any of that. I'm here to give you a second chance." 

Buck comes out from behind his desk and hobbles around his office as
he continues. "You're in the army whether you like it or not, so you
might as well do this the easy way. You may think you've got this thing
licked, but I know damn well you can't tell your elbow from a dragon's
blowhole. You keep your nose clean and serve with some distinction at the
front, and I'll do what I can about gettin' you a full pardon. Namtar's
a megalomaniac, but he's also a businessman, and he needs creeps like
you!" 

Buck dismisses you. "This is yer only chance. Namtar's gonna control
everything sooner or later, so you might as well join the winning
side. Namtar's promised a kinder and gentler Oceana, but he can't get
on with it until guys like you toe the line. 

"Get outta here!!"
-----
91. Some bandits were evidently holed up here. Their campfire is
still warm. Evidently they were eating a meal when you showed up, as
half-finished bowls of gruel stand all around the fire. 

They weren't very good bandits, or maybe they hadn't been at it for
long. There isn't much loot to be had in this camp. Maybe they were
adventurers such as yourselves, turned to crime in these hard times.
-----
92. The magnificent stag lays dead. As you kneel beside your kill, the
shaft of an arrow buries itself to the feathers in the sod between your
feet. You look up and see an old but very dangerous-looking man aiming
yet another arrow at you. 

"This is the private preserve of King Drake," the old man says. "An' you
have been poachin'." He glances over your party before continuing. "These
bein' hard times, I imagine ye gots to eat... but that was a prize animal
ye just killed, and I've gots to do me job." 

The man keeps his bow half-cocked and watches you closely. He seems
to be waiting for you to make the first move. Maybe it would be worth
winning his trust.
-----
93. "BRAAAAAP!" Nergal is crude. "That was delicious... I will hallucinate
later, and imagine Irkalla working for a living." Nergal shifts his
ponderous mass on his throne, leans forward, and leers. "And now you
will serve Nergal!" 

With impossible speed, Nergal grabs the volunteer with both slimy
hands. His jaw seems to drop down to his belt as the black maw of his
mouth is exposed. He quickly slips the volunteer's head into his mouth,
and clenches his jaw with a sickening crunch. The volunteer's body
stiffens, then goes limp, collapsing to the ground without a head. 

All is silent. Nergal smiles.
-----
94. You recall learning of waters like this during your mystic
studies. The pool of water ahead fits the description of Apsu
Waters... waters of the world ocean that underlies the surface of
Oceana. Apsu Waters are coterminous with the world of Oceana, the mystical
Magan Underworld, and dark dimensions where gods and devils reside.
-----
95. The slave boss is relentless. He offers you not a moment's rest,
nor a drop of water, or even a scrap of bread. All that matters is
that the tunnel be completed. No single man or beast may stand in the
way of the project. Night and day you are driven to finish your task,
with the sharp lash of the whip on your back, and the laughter of the
cruel slave boss ringing in your ears.
-----
96. An old man leaps to his feet and lunges for his bow when you enter
the shack. "Glory be - ye got past me snare! ! ", he exclaims. "That's
quite a feat, but it still don't do to go bargin' in on honest folks
without so much as a knock! " 

"Me name is Old Jack," he continues. "I'm the game warden
hereabouts." Jack keeps his bow half-cocked and watches you closely. He
seems to be waiting for you to make the first move. Maybe it would be
worth winning his trust.
-----
97. The long line of white-robed pilgrims ends at this rocky shrine. One
by one the pilgrims pass before a huge and powerful image of the Universal
God. There are no guards here. None are required. The God keeps its own
order beneath its own roof. 

Looking up into the faceless face of the god, you feel the hand of
destiny upon you. Namtar has not yet attempted to supplant Oceana's
primary religion... but can that day be far away? The gods risk disaster
when they come to the world in person - they must work through champions
to see their will is done. The Universal God seems to need a champion,
a legendary hero to serve the cause of Freedom. Roba of Freeport was
such a hero. Will you be another? 

The God requires a sign.
-----
98. You climb the Mountain of Salvation for several hours, but the
summit seems to draw no closer. Several pilgrims drop from exhaustion
along the path... the road to salvation is not for the weak of heart.

But a fraction of the way up the mountain, the path abruptly cuts into the
rock. A level plain has been cleared in the side of the mountain. This
is evidently the place to which the pilgrims travel. Turning around,
you look out at the world of Oceana from your lofty perch on the world's
highest mountain. To your alarm, you see you have long since risen above
even the highest clouds. The sky is purple and strange stars twinkle -
the huge bloated mass of the sun fully fills half the sky. Truly, this
place is close to God.
-----
99. In this stuffy bedroom you find a journal. From it you determine
the master of this house was a man named Mog, a rich aristocrat who made
his fortune in the mining business. By all accounts he was a crude man -
wealthy but uncultured - who fancied himself an artist. The journal is
largely given over to a remarkably frank account of Mog's failure as an
artist. 

Mog admits to experimenting with alchemy in pursuit of his art. At one
point he confesses using a potion to transform living flesh into stone,
but the artistic results were not satisfactory. 

Near the end of the journal Mog mentions "acquiring an apprentice" by
supernatural means. It seems this apprentice was originally supposed
to assist Mog in his art. Toward the end of the journal, Mog admits the
apprentice has begun producing incredible works of art which Mog displays
in his garden and calls his own. Mog hints that the apprentice demands
a terrible price for his art, and that he fears him. It is possible the
apprentice might not be human.
-----
100. Off the beaten path you find this is a temple to the Magan
Underworld. This seems a considerably older place than the other
structures on this plateau. The Underworld was before there was a was,
and doubtless it will still thrive when all of Oceana has long since
burned off into the void.
-----
101. You receive a note with your feeble meal for the day: 

'I am Berengaria, Acolyte of the Temple of the Sun. Mystalvision
has gone mad. He punishes me and the others for no reason. He has
been corrupted by Namtar.

'We of the Sun serve justice; you must believe that. Mystalvision
has brought dishonor to our Order. These are dark times. You have
been unfairly imprisoned.

'I have unlocked your door, and made certain the jailor is
drunk. If you are cautious, you should be able to sneak past him and
escape. The jailor's room adjoins the cell block. Look for the secret
door in the south wall of the jailor's room - beyond is a passage
that leads to people who will help you. I regret I cannot give you
a weapon... just doing this much has placed me in great jeopardy.

'Should you escape, meet me at the Icarian Triumph tavern in the
northeast quarter of the city. I'll have something for you. For
justice and the Sun, I remain your friend -

                                        - Berengaria'
-----
102. This is the jailor's room. The fat jailor snores in a drunken
slumber. He's slumped over his table, but there is a rope tied to his
hand, and a bell tied to his rope. Should he stir, the bell will ring,
possibly summoning guards. The jailor is asleep, and doubtless very drunk,
but turn-keys are notoriously light sleepers.
-----
103. These are the private chambers of the master of the house. The
curtains are drawn across the windows permitting little light to enter
the room. In the murk, you can see that this room, like the others in
the house, is strangely devoid of wall hangings... and that no mirrors
are present. 

The Master is in, sitting in his favorite chair. He wears the garb of
an artist - specifically of a sculptor... and he wants you to be his next
masterpiece!
-----
104. In the dark shadows of the dungeon you find a pit, at the bottom
of which is a frothing dragon. The beast is constrained by a series of
chains, but it seems to you the saurian could hardly be bound by such
puny restraints. 

Suspended above the center of the pit is a wooden platform, on which
a demented hunchback struggles with a bound prisoner. The hunchback is
about to push the prisoner into the pit, evidently intending him as a
sacrifice to the dragon. The prisoner struggles as best as he is able,
but his hands are tied behind his back, and he is weakened from long
captivity. The dragon thrashes back and forth, impatient to receive its
meal.
-----
105. There are evident signs this chamber was formerly the lair of a
beast or large animal. A pile of straw in the corner indicates where
a large creature could have slept. The walls scraped with claw marks,
and the room is pervaded by an unpleasant odor. The room makes you feel
instinctively uneasy.
-----
106. This torture chamber is a vision of misery. The walls are lined
with chains for securing prisoners in place; the center of the room
is occupied by racks, iron maidens, a fire pit, and other horrible
instruments. In the corner is a hole into which are hurled the grisly
remains of stubborn heretics. 

A dying druid is stretched on the rack. You have rescued him from his
torture... at the same time, it is evident he will soon die. There is
nothing you can do to save his life, but perhaps you can ease his final
moments?
-----
107. This tower chamber is in very ill repair. The supports are sinking,
and half the floor is flooded with inky black water. The contents of
innumerable vials and potions are emptied on the floor alongside the
smashed vials that formerly contained them. What was once a great magical
library has been destroyed by fire and water damage. 

Amid a pile of debris you find the fragments of a journal. Much of
it is in some magic language you can't understand, but a small part is
legible. The journal is dated prior to the destruction of the City of the
Yellow Mud Toad. You surmise the journal was maintained by Lanac'toor. 

'The chicken remains animate, not that it matters any longer. That pinhead
Mystalvision has changed the rules again. Where will I find a vole in
this weather...? Have resumed expansion of my tower's basement, using
Soften Stone and Create Wall spells to clear rock, but this whole damn
building is sinking. I keep running into pockets of water. Furthermore,
I uncovered an entrance to Magan, and all manner of berserk Underworld
denizens are running amok in my tunnels... The hell of it is that I've
lost my spectacles that Utnapishtim the Faraway gave me. I'll never
see the entrance to the College of Magic without them. They're buried
somewhere in the rock. I don't know if I can locate them at this late
date, with Namtar's thugs loose and my name on the hit list. I should
prepare the city for defense, but I haven't done my laundry in weeks,
and it's beginning to smell.' 

Such are the concerns of sorcerers.
-----
108. You are led to a secret throne room beneath the city of
Byzanople. There Prince Jordan and several advisors huddle around a
map in a council of war. Jordan is stunned when he sees his sister has
brought you into the heart of his defenses. Jordan's private guards
tense as they lock eyes with you. 

Prince Jordan recovers his composure and listens with interest to his
sister's story. He is very interested to learn you are infiltrators
recently pressed into service with the Kingshomer army. "You are not
native to Dilmun, I can see that," Jordan says. "This isn't your war. No
Outlander reaches the interior without going through Purgatory... and
Purgatory is administered by Kingshome. I know because my sister was
formerly Governor of Purgatory." 

Jordan invites you to sit and offers you wine. "My father is King Drake
of Kingshome," Jordan says. "I haven't seen my father in over a year -
not since Namtar rose from the Pit. My father is a peaceful man, and he
loves his children... but he has recently dismissed my sister from her
post at Purgatory, and then layed siege to me here at Byzanople. My
father loves me and the succession is not disputed. I want to see my
father die in bed - I do not covet his throne. There is no reason for
the King to make war on me. It must be Namtar's doing. 

"My father is not perfect, but it was never his way to imprison Outlanders
for no reason. Namtar has stolen my father from me; he has robbed you
of your dignity. He is our common enemy. I make you an offer - reject
Kingshome and join me in my struggle against Namtar. When my father is
restored to the throne, I will see you are richly rewarded."
-----
109. Jordan smiles. He leads you to the map he and his men were
examining. You recognize it as a plan of the Kingshomer siege camp. Jordan
pumps you for information concerning the camp and the size of the force
stationed there. 

"We'll attack them tonight," Jordan decides. "There is a secret way from
the citadel to the enemy camp - we will take them by surprise." Jordan
looks at you as he continues, "Feel free to explore the city until we
are ready to leave.
-----
110. "The time has come," Prince Jordan says as he meets you on the
stairs. Together with several of Prince Jordan's best fighters, you sneak
away from Byzanople through a secret passage. Only a skeleton garrison
is left behind - you realize Jordan is throwing everything into this
attack. 

Using a local guide, you pick your way through the mountains surrounding
the Kingshomer siege camp. The guide seems to lead you through solid rock
at times, and you soon have little idea of where you are. Suddenly,
from ahead, you hear Buck Ironhead bellow orders to a pack of new
"recruits". The battle is about to begin!
-----
111. You enter the dusty and perhaps forgotten ancestral crypt of
Byzanople. The murky vault stretches off into the darkness, harboring
the remains of several generations of royalty. Perhaps they were buried
with treasure...? 

If you listen, you think you can hear a faint rattle of chains, and the
raspy sound of a corpse drawing breath.
-----
112. Deep beneath the live volcano, you find the dragon hatchery. Here
fantastic riches are free for the taking. Your perilous journey across
the northern desert, so terrible in its undertaking, at last seems
worthwhile.
-----
113. The priests gratefully accept your knowledge and help in restoring
the temple. "Truly you are people of the Toad," says a priest. "Please
accept these boots as our gift." You are provided with several sets
of oversized golden boots. The boots are fashioned so as to resemble
the flipper feet of a toad. It will be difficult to walk wearing
such things. "The owner of Magic Golden Toad Boots can leap great
distances!" the priest says with pride.
-----
114. In the darkest heart of this palace of the dead you find an
incredible sight... the court of Nergal, consort to Irkalla and King of
the Underworld. The bloated white mass of Nergal slouches on a throne of
skulls, attended by a score of pallid goblins. Worms squirm in his hair,
bats nestle in his loins, and rodents peer at you from within Nergal's
mouth. About his neck, on a silver chain, you see a large and ornate
key. 

"Topsiders... in my Court!" Nergal roars. "Bad enough I am in exile without
fool clodhoppers barging in on me. Goblins! Ghoulies! Bring them here!!"
-----
115. "Haw! Most entertaining," Nergal laughs. The hideous god raises one
fist and his court of freaks - though you just hacked them to pieces -
lurch to their feet like puppets on invisible strings. The goblins and
ghoulies look ready to fight again... it's evident the undead monsters will
eventually wear you down. "You have entertained me... but you must also
feed Nergal and serve Nergal before you can ask a boon of Nergal. That
is the law!" 

Nergal looks at you expectantly. A ghoul titters.
-----
116. Just as advertised by the blind juggler, there was indeed a secret
tunnel out of Purgatory. Beneath the rock marked with the secret sign
you find fresh armor and weapons... thus armed, you are ready to seek
revenge for your imprisonment.
-----
117. Here in the open garden you find an unusual statue. It is of an
apparently wealthy man, if the quality of his garments is any clue. He
is in poor shape, and appears to be afraid of something. The quality of
the work is excellent, but the statue is very unflattering.
-----
118. A massive mechanical brass automaton stands at silent attention in
this chamber. It is a flawless piece of engineering, massive yet agile,
and heavily armed and armored from head to toe. It would not do to run
into this thing in a dark hallway.
-----
119. This vault is filled with slumbering dwarves... but if they sleep, it
is the sleep of the dead, for the dwarves have been turned to stone. The
dwarves are frozen in all variety of poses - sleeping, eating, working,
and just a few while fighting. It seems the dwarves were surprised by
something terrible that turned them to stone.
-----
120. The Dragon Queen recoils when you show the Dragon Gem. "Curse
you!" she hisses. "The Dragon Gem marks you as friend of dragons,
and binds me to your will." The Dragon Queen looms above you, seeming
impossibly large. "I grant you your life, and I dismiss you from my
presence. When next you use the Dragon Gem, I will respond... but the
sacrifice you offer must be sweet, or I will turn on you, and the Dragon
Gem be damned!!" 

With a beat of her wings the Dragon Queen is gone.
-----
121. Peals of hysterical laughter assail your ears. You've discovered
the secret under city of Lansk, and where the city above is staid and
conservative, this place is a true party town. Citizens stagger about
in drunken stupors, angry soldiers wrestle with one another, women and
animals run through the streets.
-----
122. This statue represents Irkalla, the reigning deity of the Magan
Underworld. It is to her you must appeal if you will long survive in
the Underworld. She frequently wars with her consort Nergal, sometime
King of the Underworld.
-----
123. Here is a statue of Nergal, the cowardly King of the Underworld. When
he is not getting along with Irkalla, Nergal is exiled to his palace
in the Necropolis, a city of the dead hidden on one of Dilmun's many
isles. Nergal is a bloated and ridiculous creature, but from the look
in his eye you surmise he might have a sense of humor.
-----
124. This statue honors the Universal God, the most popular deity of
the surface realm of Oceana. The Universal God is a faceless deity
with multiple arms and hands. Each hand is posed in a different signal,
sending messages of hope and fear to the faithful. The Universal God is
said to offer power to those who serve Freedom - it was a patron of the
legendary Roba of Freeport. An ancient shrine to the Universal God on
the mountain of Nisir attracts millions of pilgrims annually.
-----
125. Here you find an image of Enkidu the beastman, patron deity of
animals and Druids. His worship is strong in the wild places, but has
declined in cities with the rise of Namtar and the destruction of the
Druid sect.
-----
126. Here you find Lansk's dragon, perhaps first glimpsed from the city
square above. Up close the dragon is not nearly so impressive. It is an
old dragon - its fire has gone out, and its teeth have been pulled. It is
still a powerful beast, but age or drugs seem to have robbed the beast
of its fighting spirit. The animal looks at you with something close to
sadness in its eyes.
-----
127. The cave is much larger on the inside than without. The interior
of the cave is lined with thousands of natural crystals that crazily
reflect the light. After your long dark journey through the Underworld,
you are dazzled by the sudden light, and become disoriented. 

A voice rings in your ears. "You are the heroes of Oceana, and to you
has fallen the burden of this adventure. Listen closely, for this is
what you must do... 

"The fair world of Oceana is sinking as the seas swell ever larger -
there is little to be done for this. The world has its span of life
like any man or beast. The pilgrim Isles of Dilmun have been usurped
by Namtar, a renegade demon from the realm of this Underworld. He has
disposed of King Drake of Kingshome and rules in the late King's name,
using the King's legions to pursue his path of conquest. 

"Namtar must be destroyed. He has isolated his enemies, dispersed the
magical brotherhood of the world and taken control of the dragons. 

"The Sword of Freedom must be found and reborn in its forge. A
reconciliation of sorts must be set between Irkalla and Nergal,
for without accord in the Underworld, there can be no peace on the
surface. When all is ready, seek the Mountain of Salvation - Namtar must
be returned to the pit of hell from which he came." 

The voice fades...
-----
128. You sprinkle the ashes on the dark waters of the well, which abruptly
begin to swirl. Although the night of the Underworld is absolute, you
think you see a reflection of stars in the swirling black waters. The
motion of the water intensifies and the ashes are sucked into the
depths. 

You stand back as a ghostly apparition rises from the well. At first
the form is a shade, then a ghost, then a spectre, then a living
corpse. Gradually the shape takes corporeal form... blood, bone, muscle,
teeth, hair is restored. 

The ashes are restored to life!
-----
129. The meeting of the Dilmun Underground is called to order. All those
in attendance at the meeting are cloaked in dark robes, and although
you recognize a few voices, no faces are visible.
-----
130. Formerly the imperial court of King Drake, this hall retains none
of the splendor of ages past. Where once hung brilliant tapestries,
the walls are now bare. Empty pedestals mark where renowned sculptures
formerly stood. Blocks of marble are missing in several places where
materials have been removed to construct fortresses for Kingshome's
campaign army. This is not the court of a king in residence.
-----
131. This is a private bed chamber. A man wearing a simple robe lays on
a divan. He seems neither old nor young. He has no distinguishing marks
or characteristics... there is no evil air to him, his eyes do not piece
to your soul, his brow has no spark of mad genius. He sits up lazily
as you enter, swings his feet to the floor, walks across the room,
and shakes your hand. 

"I'm Namtar," he says. "I suppose you guessed that. You've given me quite
a lot of trouble." Namtar smiles. "Disappointed? Expecting something
more? Later - I promise you. Won't you sit down?" Namtar offers you a
chair. 

Namtar looks sleepy. He keeps rubbing his eyes. "Administering the
conquest of the world is a bitch," he says. "If I'd known how much work
this was going to take, I doubt I ever would have started. Or maybe I
never had a choice. No matter. We need to talk. 

"I am the son of gods. It is my destiny to rule men such as
yourselves. You don't have to like it - I sense you do not - but that is
the way of things. I have some grand plans, but I can't begin until this
futile resistance is quelled. It's just a matter of time. You know that as
well as I. Why don't you pack it off to the Isle of the Damned - it worked
for old Drake. You're not even native to Dilmun... there's little reason
for you to oppose me. Granted, that episode in Purgatory was nasty, but
into everyone's life a little reign must fall. Ha ha. That was a pun." 

No one laughs. Namtar sighs. "Ah well, I suppose we'll have to do this
the hard way. I'll be leaving now. If you're very dedicated, and very
lucky, we may meet again within the Mountain of Salvation. I will kill
you then. In the meantime consider yourselves to be living on borrowed
time. It's the least I can give you in gratitude for the entertainment
you've provided thus far. 

"Oh... by the way. You can move again." Namtar's sorcery was so complete,
you did not notice you were under his compulsion until he brought it
up. "I wish you the worst of luck, my friends." Suddenly Namtar is gone -
no flash of light, no peal of thunder - just gone.
-----
132. Aradrax screams as the first pint of blood is pumped from his
body. This is going to be a long night - a single pint will never
satisfy the Vampire Lord, but it seems none of the blood is going to
come easy. You check the machines and see they function as advertised,
but it still seems your volunteer is experiencing needless pain.
-----
133. "You're all right," the troll laughs, wiping the froth from his
lips. "We have many other strange and wonderful customs of which you
should partake. Meet me at the crossed oaks when the moon is full,
and you will have your promised meeting with the king."
-----
134. In the very heart of the valley you find the sacred hive of the
Dragon Queen. The Queen sits atop a mountain of eggs, some of which
hatch young saurians even as you watch. The Dragon Queen is colossal -
easily ten times the size of any beast you've confronted thus far. She
fixes you with a fierce glare. 

"You carve your way through my valley," she hisses, "destroying my
creatures, and now enter the presence of the Mother Dragon. You will die
for what you have done, but you will die slowly... as food for my brood."

The Dragon Queen rears up and prepares to breathe a blast of poisonous
fire.
-----
135. "I trust you have read Poe " Namtar laughs. "The best place to hide
something is in plain sight. You paranoid dolts would never consider that,
would you?" Namtar slides another rod into his arcane box. "Soon my work
will be complete... soon I will fulfill my destiny - and then you will
rue the day you laughed at me!!"
-----
136. The galleries are crammed with fools, each exiled here for their
inability to follow directions. The fantasy is only so real as you allow
it to be, and while at times life may seem a fool's errand, it is only
what you make of it. There is little sense in cheating yourself at
solitaire.
-----
137. Bound in chains upon this lonely Isle of Woe you find the dark
queen Irkalla, Mistress of Magan. The chains are made of enchanted
silver, and she is unable to move. "Topsiders!" she snarls when she sees
you. "It's always the same. The water level rises, your toilets back up
and everyone rushes to the Underworld for help! Well, I have problems of
my own, as you can see. That filthy half-breed Namtar chained me here,
and gave the key to the one creature who owes me no favors." 

Irkalla regards you. "Perhaps you could be of some use," she says, her
tone suddenly becoming incredibly seductive."Find the Silver Key and set
me free... you will be richly rewarded. Namtar is our mutual enemy. Serve
me, and I shall serve you to defeat him!"
-----
138. You stand at the edge of the Isle of Woe looking out across the
dark waters, and are convinced nothing is going to happen when a sudden
flight of bats overhead heralds the arrival of momentous events. An
ominous ringing fills the air. A few yards offshore the dark waters
part, and offered up from the depths you see the legendary Sword of
Freedom. Forged from dwarven steel in the fires of hell, powered by the
essence of the legendary hero Roba, and tempered in the Apsu waters that
underlie creation, the most powerful artifact Oceana has ever known has
been reborn!
-----
139. The dwarf has the engine running in no time. With a shudder and
a cough, the ancient airship lumbers aloft, and for the first time in
centuries something other than a dragon plies the airways of Oceana. 

After several days journey to the west, you spot an uncharted island. At
the center of the island is an odd ring of standing stones, and in the
center of the ring you see...
-----
140. You are up to see the dawn as the sun's rays brilliantly spread
across the waters of Oceana. Nights on the trail have their own sort of
beauty, but you can't hope helping it won't always be like this. Someday
you will no longer be an outlaw. Someday you will sleep beneath a roof
like other people, and at last be considered a true citizen of Dilmun. You
won't always be poor - this is just a phase.
-----
141. In the next chamber, you see fires identical to the first. "Very
good," the voice intones. "You have potential, but I detected a flaw
in your form. Please negotiate this wall of fire for me, that I might
study your finer points."
-----
142. "Now you are learning. Not everything is as it seems," says the
voice. You enter a chamber occupied by a stone gargoyle. The gargoyle's
gaze is fixed on the door through which you must exit the room. "To be
seen by the gargoyle is to know death," says the voice. "Yet the gargoyle
sees the exit. What to do, what to do...?"
-----
143. "Now you have learned to listen. Excellent... you are half-way home,"
says the voice. You detect genuine admiration in its tone. "This college
exists in the rarified atmosphere of the true academic, but not everyone
you will encounter appreciates the Art. You must learn to deal with such
ruffians." Out of thin air, a huge warrior appears, wielding a sword in
both hands. "I'm gonna split yer lobe, highbrow!" he snarls.
-----
144. "I'm sorry that was so brutal, but I had to prove a point," the voice
explains. "Some people can't appreciate Art... in such times, you must
rely on more direct measures." You find yourself in a chamber over which
is suspended a huge block of granite. The block is hung by a cable... the
cable trails to a wall and down to the floor, where it stretches across
the floor as a trip-wire. It doesn't take much intelligence to figure it
would be unhealthful to trip on the wire. The voice is strangely silent.
-----
145. "That was novel. I don't think I've seen that solution
before." Across the room you see your mysterious host. "I am Utnapishtim,
also called the Faraway. I have been your teacher, now you must teach
me something. I want to see something novel and new. Give me your best
shot... you go first." The wizard waits for you to act.
-----
146. This time it is Utnapishtim in the flesh who greets you. "Well
done!" he says. "Having learned to listen to me, you've learned you don't
have to listen to me. Lanac'toor could not have done better." The old
wizard shows no concern when you tell him Lanac'toor is dead. "There's
death, and then there's death. I wouldn't worry about Toor." 

Utnapishtim shows you to a cabinet, within which are three magic
items. "For completing my gauntlet, you may select one item. I offer
the Soul Bowl, the Laugh Staff, or the Sing Ring. Which will it be, my
friends?" The wizard looks at you with a hint of impatience. From the
way he introduced the items, you judge he does not want you to select
the Soul Bowl.
-----
147. You emerge from a narrow pass and look out on a hidden valley. The
valley is narrow and wet and confined on three sides by mountains and
by the sea on the fourth. The swampy mass of the valley floor at first
appears to be moving... until you look closer, when you realize the
valley floor is covered with a mass of living creatures, crawling one
atop another as far as the eye can see. 

To venture into the Dragon Valley is to invite certain death.